# React Lifting Up State - Extra Repetition

## Learning Objectives
 - Learn how to lift state up from a component

React's data flow is unidirectional and data flows down: Data moves from parent components down. A parent component has no idea about the state of its child components.

As we were updating our state of our songs (toggling our love of them, and showing a heart), the state in the parent component did not change.

Let's say we would want to make a list of favorite songs, that when a user clicks on an item, it gets a heart but also goes into the favorite songs list. We would need to move that information out of the `Playlist` and into a `FavoriteSongs` component. There is no direct way to move this data from the `Playlist` to the `FavoriteSongs`component - we have to move the data up into the shared parent component of `Playlist` and `FavoriteSongs` and then dispatch the data to the `FavoriteSongs`.

If this seems, a bit unwieldy, especially if you have a lot of state to manage, a lot of people would agree. Therefore there are solutions to help, for example, there are other libraries like `Redux` that help manage state.

For now, we'll learn the basics of how to lift up state.

We also want to update our functionality of our onClick inside of the `Playlist`, rather than toggle a true/false value, we want to take that item and add it to the `App`'s state and then pass it down to the favorite songs.

Let's make a `FavoriteSongs` component. It's going to be very similar to our `Playlist`, as a bonus, you could think about whether there would be a way to reuse our Playlist or if it makes sense to keep them separate.

```js
class FavoriteSongs extends Component {
  render () {
    return (
      <table>
        <thead>
          <tr>
            <th>Song</th>
            <th>Artist</th>
            <th>Time</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
        {  this.props.songs.map((song, index )=> {
            return (
              <tr key={index}>
                <td>{song.title}</td>
                <td>{song.artist}</td>
                <td>{song.time}</td>
              </tr>
            )
          })}
        </tbody>
      </table>
    )
  }
}

```

Now Let's import this new component:
**App.js**
```js
import React, { Component } from 'react';
import playlists from './data.js'
import Playlist from './components/Playlist.js'
import FavoriteSongs from './components/FavoriteSongs.js'
```

Add an array to the state of the App component called `lovedSongs`

**App.js**
```js
this.state = {
  playlists: playlists,
  title: '',
  artist:'',
  time: '0:00',
  lovedSongs: []
}
```

Let's make a function that will add to our lovedSongs in our `App`
**App.js**
```js
addLovedSong(song) {
  this.setState({lovedSongs: [song, ...this.state.lovedSongs]})
}
```
and don't forget to bind `this` in the constructor

```js
  this.addLovedSong = this.addLovedSong.bind(this)
```
We have to pass this function down to our Playlist

```js
  <Playlist playlists={this.state.playlists} handleAdd={this.addLovedSong}/>
```

Let's render this component(it'll be empty at first):

**App.js**
```js
<div className="playlists">
  <Playlist playlists={this.state.playlists} handleAdd={this.addLovedSong}/>
  <FavoriteSongs songs={this.state.lovedSongs}/>
</div>
```

Now we have to pass `addLovedSong` even further down into our Song component (this is called props drilling and is something that redux looks to solve)

**Playlist**

```js
  <Song song={song} key={index} handleAdd={this.props.handleAdd}/>
```


Finally, we can call this function inside of our click event.
However, we have three problems
- we need to be able to pass an argument into the function. We can't do it onClick or else it will fire immediately
- we already have another function being triggered on click
- whenever we click we'll always toggle love, so when we add to favorites, our heart state will be reversed

To solve this, we can wrap both functions in an anonymous function and we can add a bit of logic to only trigger our add to favorites if a song is not yet our favorite but we click on it

**Song**

```js
<tr
  onClick={
    () => {
      this.toggleLove();
     {!this.state.love && this.props.handleAdd(this.props.song)}
   }}>
```

Finally, let's test it out!

## Extra bonuses

- Whenever we click we add a song
Fix it so that only loved songs can be added
- We can add the same song multiple times - make it so that you can only add a song once
- Make is so that you can remove a song from the favorites list
