## Make our own objects



We can make our _own_ objects. They will be very similar to the JavaScript ones we are used to, the ones that have properties and methods that can be accessed and altered with **dot notation**.

Let's make a template for our objects. The template is called a **class**. Remember how in JavaScript we used classes to create objects?

This is a similar thing, but in Ruby.

```ruby
class World

  def name
    "Nothing But Shrimp"
  end

end


world1 = World.new

p world1
p world1.name
p world1.class
```

> `#<World:0x007ff2f90277b0>`
>
> `"Nothing But Shrimp"`
>
> `World`

The first thing we see is the object itself. It looks strange, but that's OK. We're not going to worry about those extra letters and numbers for now.

The next thing is the name of that world.

Last, we see that `world1` is an object created by the **World** class.


## Make it so we can update properties

```ruby
world1.name = "Tatooine"
```

Does not work, instead we have to make a **setter method** in the class.

First, let's put `name` into an **instance variable** that will have scope over all methods in the class.

We can make an **initialize** method in our class that will automatically run when we instantiate an object.
Let's test our code :

```ruby
class World

  def initialize
    @name = "Nothing But Shrimp"
  end

  def name
    @name
  end

end

world1 = World.new
p world1.name
```

The **initialize** method is just like the **constructor** method we used in JavaScript classes.


Now let's work on being able to update the name:


Let's make a setter method with special
`something=input` syntax:

```ruby
class World

  def initialize
    @name = "Nothing But Shrimp"
  end

  def name
    @name
  end

  def name=value
    @name = value
  end

end


world1 = World.new
world1.name = "Tatooine"
p world1.name
```

We are getting closer to learning how to make objects that have all the functionality that our js objects had!

## Behavior

Let's make it so the worlds we make will do something (add a method).

Let's make it so a world can populate itself with people.

**Object Specs:**

Ruby is often used with tests and specs. We haven't been teaching tests and specs (and probably won't have time to). You may notice the wording of certain labs and hw is different than you are used to. We have tried to adjust the activities but also leave the language intact so you can get familiar with the kind of wording you may see out on a job.

* A world can have many people, but starts with none
	* This means initialize the object with an empty array to hold the people in.

* World can populate itself with one person at a time.
 * A person has properties name (string), age (int) - for now we'll make a default person, later we'll upgrade the method
* Make a method `populate` that will push a hash (object) into the people array.

```ruby
class World

  def initialize
    @name = "Nothing But Shrimp"
    @people = []
  end

  def name
    @name
  end

  def people
    @people
  end

  def name=value
    @name = value
  end

  def populate
    @people << { name: "Shrimpy McShrimpsky", age: 20 }
  end

end


world1 = World.new

p world1.people

world1.populate
world1.populate
world1.populate

p world1.people
```

> [{:name=>"Shrimpy McShrimpsky", :age=>20}, {:name=>"Shrimpy McShrimpsky", :age=>20}, {:name=>"Shrimpy McShrimpsky", :age=>20}]


## Provide data to new object

All the worlds we make will start out the same. What if we want to start off with different worlds?

We can provide input to the **initialize** method:

```ruby
  def initialize name
    @name = name
    @people = []
  end
```

Now we can easlily create many new worlds with the same properties and methods

```
world1 = World.new "Panthelassa"
world2 = World.new "Tatooine"
world3 = World.new "Nothing But Shrimp"
world4 = World.new "San Junipero"
```

```
p world1.name
p world2.name
p world3.name
p world4.name
```


>"Panthalassa"
"Tatooine"
"Nothing But Shrimp"
"San Junipero"

We can also update our class (blueprint/template) in one place and thus keep our code DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)
Add in `shape`

```ruby
  def initialize name, shape
    @shape = shape
    @name = name
    @people = []
  end
```

We can also add a default values, so if a shape value is not inputted, it will have a default value

```ruby
  def initialize name, shape='oblate spheroid'
    @shape = shape
    @name = name
    @people = []
  end
```

```ruby
world1 = World.new "Panthalassa"
world2 = World.new "Tatooine" , "sphere"
world3 = World.new "Nothing But Shrimp" , "dome"
world4 = World.new "San Junipero", "cylinder"
```


## Access shape property

- above, we could access the name property.
- but when we try:

`p world1.shape`

- we get an error
- we have to either create a method to see the value OR we can use a shorthand. We used a method for the `name` property, let's use the shorthand for shape.

Convention is to put this 'shorthand' at the top of the class, before the initialize method

```ruby
class World
  attr_reader :shape

```

Great, let's go and change the shape

world1.shape = 'cube'

We fail again! We must explicitly state that this property can be overwritten

```ruby
class World
  attr_reader :shape
  attr_writer :shape
```

We can also condense our code for properties that can be read and overwritten by using

`attr_accessor`


```ruby
class World
  attr_accessor :shape

```

`attr_accessor` allows us to read and write a property

## Create a Method that Adds Different Data to the Array



```ruby
  def populate name, age
    @people << { name: name, age: age }
  end
```

But wait! We want to be able to see the people array, so let's add an `attr_reader` for `:people`

```ruby
world3.populate "Eleanor ShellStrop", 36
world3.populate "Chidi Anagonye", 32
world3.populate "Tahani Al-Jamil", 34
world3.populate "Jianyu", 31

p world3.people
```

>  [{:name=>"Eleanor ShellStrop", :age=>36}, {:name=>"Chidi Anagonye", :age=>32}, {:name=>"Tahani Al-Jamil", :age=>34}, {:name=>"Jianyu", :age=>31}]


## Remove getters and setter functions for `:name`, replace with 'shorthand'

```ruby
class World

	attr_reader :people
	attr_accessor :name, :shape

	def initialize name, shape='oblate spheroid'
		@shape = shape
		@name = name
		@people = []
	end

	def populate name, age
		@people << { name: name, age: age }
	end

end
```

We can still change the name of world 3 and read it

```ruby
world3.name = 'The Good Place'
p world.name

```



## Automate Object Creation into an Array

Sometimes you need to create a number of objects at once (remember factories from JS?). Let's look at a code example:

```ruby
planets = %w(Mercury Venus Earth Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Pluto)
# populate milky way with worlds from our planets array
milky_way = []

planets.each do |planet|
  world = World.new planet
  milky_way << world
end

p milky_way
```
